All right.
So now we're going to learn about context hook.
I guess it's a fairly advanced topic, however.
We have a perfect situation where we can use this use context hook to create a global state.
All right.
So we're going to give it a try.
So when we say hooks in React, the hooks are basically their functions.
And you'll be able to use many hooks to add certain features to your components.
So here we have a very simple component.
But let's see.
We may have a form where user can enter the name, email, password, things like that.
So when they enter those information, we would need a place to put those information right.
So if user enter the name, we need some kind of a state where we can store that user input like name
for example, something like this const.
Name two.
That is going to be the state where we are going to store the user input for the name and then to update
that, we're going to use set name function.
So this is a convention.
So whatever name you have for the state, you prefix with the state.
So sit I guess it that's the function.
This is a state, this is a function and we're going to use react don't use the state or you could just
de structure in this to use I used it so this is how you could use the use state hook.
So now if you want to use this one import and use the state from React.
So we have to import that hook and then this is how we can use so this is how you use a local state.
Now this state and this function is available inside this component, but not on any other components.
For example, we have the admin, this component as well, but this name will not be available into
the admin because that's a completely different component.
So this will be available only here.
So that's why we call it local state.
However, there is a situation where you want to have some kind of a global state.
And that situation is something that.
Let's imagine that this name will be required in multiple places.
So if you have a situation like that, then instead of using a local STD, you would want to use global
state because that global state, the name and the the function to augment the state, that is something
required for the entire application more than one phases.
All right.
So in that situation, you would use global state.
In other cases, you can use local state.
So in our case, what are we going to do now is we're going to implement this theme toggle theme feature
to switch the theme between light and dark.
And that is something you want to use as a global state, because we could put it technically, we could
put it into the navigation component and we could create that component and put it there.
However, sometimes you will come across a situation where you want to know What is the current theme
we're using?
All right.
So this value, the state value, you want to know because let's imagine you have a home base and you
have this fixed with the color white.
Now, you may want to change this to black based on the theme.
All right.
I maybe you want to give some other color based and theme so it can always be helpful and maybe even
required in application.
So to make the team available globally, we're going to use this youth context group to create a global
state.
Now, if you have some experience with React, then you may have heard of Redux as well.
Redux is another infinite library you could use to create a global state.
However, with the introduction of hooks in React, we can use the use context group to build our own
global state so we don't have to actually use Redux.
All right, so let's see how we can create a context.
And let me also explain what I was trying to demonstrate here.
So we're going to create a global state using use context hook.
Basically, this hook will have the state of theme.
And to update that theme, we will have the sentiment function just like here name in Sydney.
Similar to that, we're going to have theme and set theme.
All right.
And then with context, you'll be able to exit this property, provide some context to provide will
help you provide the values that you have in the context to any in the entire application.
So basically, we're going to create the context and then import in and reduce this and reduce it gets
initialized before any of the phases, right?
So that's why we import it.
This is as well.
So we're going to import that context and then we just wrap our application here that way at whatever
value you have in the global context, the theme setting, they will be easily accessible in any basis
or components.
All right.
So that was a bit of theory, if that may be confused, don't worry.
We're going to do it practically.
And that will make perfect profit since and we will also be using these these hooks many times throughout
the course.
So even if you don't get it at first time, don't worry, we'll be using them quite a lot of time.
So over time you'll be fully comfortable using it.
All right.
So let's go ahead and create a global state using a used context hook.
And let me also call here, go back to home base and let me just remove that we.
They stayed here for now.